now as i talked about in my pro-life
video i don't look at women who have had
abortions as criminals i don't think
that they did something
knowingly i think that there was a
narrative sold to them
that they should be having an abortion
that they should be
taking control of their own life and
people who get abortions
often make that decision with a
misunderstanding of that morality
when i think of babies uh happy gurgles
and giggles don't come to my mind i
think more
whiny annoying loud stinky
smelly waste of time life for ruiner so
yeah if i ever got pregnant i think i'd
terminate the pregnancy to avoid all
that this is what i was just saying
about people
actively thinking that having children
is bad they actively think that a child
is literally stealing your freedom so
number one
i would say that a lot of people would
not agree with that statement
they would not say that having a child
literally steals their freedom
but if literally stealing your freedom
is the baseline for murder if you have a
family member who gets
injured do you have the right to kill
them because you have to take care of
them
when is it not justified to murder
someone who limits your freedom
well abby the fact is children are quite
literally the thieves of
our futures women who seek out an
abortion but are denied
and are then forced to carry a pregnancy
to term
are far more likely to experience
economic hardship
compared to women who were able to get
an abortion
so this kind of argument is made on the
pro-choice side pretty frequently
the idea that a baby shouldn't be born
into bad circumstances
we don't get to choose somebody's
quality of life for them
we don't get to see someone else's
suffering and decide that it's too much
and that we should end their life
well abby tell me if you're comfortable
with this are you comfortable with
forcing an 11 year old
victim to give birth this is kind of why
we need safe legal abortions and this is
why women should keep their reproductive
rights
of course with a woman who does get
raped and gets pregnant this is a hard
topic and a hard part of the debate but
i do want to address it
so a couple of things one the percentage
of women
who get abortions because they were
raped is .5
it's half a percent so it does not make
up
anywhere near the majority of abortions
that women get
that's number one number two is that
if a woman does get raped it's a
horrible thing that happened
the man should be get the worst possible
punishment
and women who get raped are it's a
horrible thing that's happened to them
the fact is that it's not the baby's
fault and we
cannot blame the child for how it was
brought into this world
abortion in the year 2019 it's the
debate
we didn't want to have in 1919 or 1959
so we're still having it now
and look it up all around the world
there are countries where abortion
still remains in a legal gray area where
it's still an unresolved question
i was raised in canada i was taught
again and again that somehow canadians
were morally superior to americans
because we'd legalized abortions whereas
americans had not
and that is a lie canada the united
kingdom's many countries around the
world
the debate rages on precisely because we
never have done what the people of
ireland did
we never made the commitment to
democratically deciding the issue
through a referendum and once you commit
to deciding the issue through a
referendum
by the same token you're going to commit
to through public education engaging
with people
caring about their beliefs their
perceptions their misconceptions
and trying to solve the problem at that
level really reaching out to and
engaging with the people
who have the passionate conviction that
abortion
is morally equivalent to murder people
who really believe that mothers should
go to prison
as criminals if they decide to have an
abortion
now i understand that perspective i
understand
it because it's not entirely false
it's clinging to concepts that are
true but misleading and those are
important
misconceptions to try to counter in the
public
and in this case even though i feel the
left wing basically has come to the
correct conclusions
they've come to the correct conclusions
through reasoning
that is completely false dishonest
and internally incoherent okay so let's
let's let's deal with that first
the argument i've heard just today from
the young turks left-wing news source
you will have heard this from
left-wingers your whole lives probably
the argument i've heard from the
wing today is that abortion is
simply a medical operation between
a woman and her doctor and that
therefore the government should have no
role in it whatsoever
this is laughably outrageously
ridiculously wrong and yet of course if
you look at it as just a single stage
of analysis if you look at it as an
isolated fact
there's a sense in which it's
self-evidently true yes
abortion is a surgical procedure
but that's not what we were debating was
it
okay yes having your tonsils removed is
a surgical procedure
yes having breast implants breast
augmentation is a surgical procedure
does that mean that there's absolutely
no role for government law legislation
or public policy on these things
does that mean that if breast implants
were illegal
that you would object on the same
grounds
that uh this is a violation of women's
rights today the young turks
today they claim that this is morally
the same as rape
because it's interfering with what a
woman wants to do with her body
they actually made that claim so you
know the fact that
some breast implants are legal and some
are illegal uh
more famously that some forms of bum
enlargement this kind of surgery
are legal and others are illegal that's
in the news a lot because some people
got those procedures and some people
died you know the fact that those
decisions are made
in the public interest for public
welfare by the government the fact that
actually there are myriad laws
even governing whether or not you can
have your tonsils removed this is this
is already one thing that's incoherent
and dishonest
argument even if we were to accept the
premise
that there was no more ethical
significance
to an abortion than there is to having
your tonsils removed
we would still have a question of
responsible public education public
policy
of trying to reduce the number of people
having their tonsils removed surgically
every year we still say well look
what is it is it a strep throat epidemic
is it lack of hygiene is it food
standards
why is it that so many people are going
to hospitals having their toss removed
is there is there a misconception that
you'll be a better singer if you have
your tonsils removed
you have to do public education and tell
people stop getting what is it we have
to do step by step so we have a
we have a society where there are as few
tonsils being removed as possible
where in fact the ideal number of
tonsillectomies of tonsil removing
surgeries
the ideal number is actually zero and
we're never going to achieve that
but let's admit this is something that's
bad and wrong and a problem
and that we're engaged in public policy
training laws that is the position
that is unthinkable to the left wing and
the mainstream left
the mainstream center left because
they've been avoiding
the real ethical cultural and even legal
problems raised by by abortion by trying
to insist
one that it's simply a type of surgery
and then two any legislation interfering
with it
is violating a woman's right to just
privately decide this with her doctor
and the shame of it is as i say the left
wing has basically come
to the right conclusion that yeah the
simplest solution this problem
is to legalize abortion and try to have
public education campaigns
making uh birth control more available
indeed
even making adoption more available
making alternatives more available
to try to minimize the number of
abortions in society
but on the other hand
the conservatives and the right wing are
clinging to the simple notion
that abortion is a form of infanticide
and that also regarded in isolation
is indeed a fact i think every society
in the history of the world has had one
form
of socially sanctioned legally
acceptable infanticide
or another and in our society here and
now
when children are born with very serious
mental and physical disabilities
i think we should have infanticide
permitted for some number of months
within some limits for some conditions
even
after the birth of the child it's a
tremendously scary and saddening thing
to take responsibility for
but again you can confront people with
this moral question
well if you really believe that this is
murder
if you really believe that under any
circumstances having an abortion under
any circumstances
committing infanticide is murder who's
going to raise those children
is it you and if not you
then who
in the year 2019 the legality of
abortion
is a tremendously simple issue made
complex and convoluted
by the dishonesty of people on both
sides of the debate
the dishonesty i feel stems from a
fundamental discomfort
with democracy itself very few people
on the left or right are really
interested in democracy
democracy in the sense handed down to us
from ancient athens
democracy in the sense practiced by the
people of ireland
when they had a vote on the issue when
they had a referendum when they
determined to direct democracy
whether abortion should be legal or
illegal
that is ultimately the decision that we
all have to make
society by society state by state
whatever the case may be
and if we make the decision
democratically then we all have to be
tremendously concerned
about public education about the level
of enlightenment and understanding
that the general public has as is
applied to this issue
because the public lacks a certain level
of education or enlightenment on the
issue
that it's going to have terrible
consequences for us all
that's one of the fundamental virtues of
democracy as opposed to an elitist
despotism
if you live in an elitist despotism you
can just decide well
this is the right answer a small number
of people in power
make that decision and then the rest of
us live with the consequences
and it doesn't matter what percentage
the general public fail to understand it
have an ethical or other objection to
the idea
today in the united states of america
only 18 percent of people
take the view that under absolutely no
circumstances
should abortion be legal should abortion
be permitted
those people matter those people matter
too
if you sincerely care about democracy
about the future of the democracy
in your country you should care about
reaching out to and educating those
people
engaging with them and getting them to
think beyond just a single stage of
analysis
now the term i just used may seem
unfamiliar
but it's really easy to understand i'm
vegan
we have similar and similarly flawed
debates about veganism all the time
matt dillahunty recently said that he
saw absolutely nothing wrong
morally with drinking cow's milk and he
said this because
drinking the milk itself doesn't kill a
cow
all right that may be true but that's
looking at only
a single stage of the process that's not
doing a full life cycle analysis
it's not even doing a 10-year analysis
okay so if you have a society
where 1 billion people drink 1 billion
liters of milk
every day why don't we go through an
analysis of what it takes to produce
that milk
what it takes to have cows giving birth
to and maintaining the necessary number
of cattle
what those cows eat and the sewage
they're going to generate and what
happens to that sewage because it
doesn't go into the sewage system
it pollutes the rivers and lakes and
oceans and so on and so forth
you look at a cycle of suffering that's
being perpetuated by forcibly
inseminating cattle
keeping them in confinement etc etc now
it's very obvious
it's very obvious and yet someone
a so-called philosopher a leader of
political opinion like matt dillahunty
he spent decades of his life believing
in this simplified
single stage of analysis that in a sense
is true
the problem isn't that it's false the
problem is it's
true but misleading all right
now i think the most sincere position
adopted by the right-wing conservatives
in this
which is again in isolation true is that
they will say
abortion is an act of infanticide
and that is true but that is only a
single stage of analysis
i knew one young man who was
um what we call a crack baby his mother
used cocaine
during the pregnancy in fact i met him
in canada i was living can as a kid
his family um ran away from the city
they were living in the united states
something like chicago i forget uh to
try to get away from the drug scene they
were trying to quit
when she found out she was pregnant she
was trying to quit ran away to a new
city
escape the circle of friends and
familiar dealers you can imagine there's
a
psychological as well as practical
element to that
and he had brain damage and physical
damage
from his mother's drug use and he said
you know he was haunted by this idea
that he was himself born to be a drug
addict
you know to some extent that's
scientific and to some extent i think
that's a bit of a folk tale
so on and so forth um he's got to live
with the consequence of that for the the
rest of his life
and today these things are a lot easier
to put together
partly just due to the technology of
youtube you can put together case
studies and testimonials and real
examples and you can share them with the
public educate the public
about the real consequence of these
things in the past lawyers had to go
around
and find people who were willing to
testify in front of congress or in front
of parliament depending what country
and then newspaper writers would report
on that and then people would just be
looking at the dry
text of this in the newspaper not seeing
the physical reality of what it is to
raise a kid
who's brain damaged or disabled due to
the the drug addiction the mother and
that guy i met he was he was one of the
lucky ones you know he you know
he had use of of all of his uh arms and
legs and so on
he was an interesting guy he was a nice
guy but you can imagine that was a
chilling and very interesting influence
for me in my life
meeting someone who's whose whole life
was shaped by the drug addiction of his
of his parents um
that's not something that is maybe going
to happen
that's something that is inevitably
going to happen
the united states has an epidemic of
drug addiction
um at the moment i think it's
extraordinary the level of addiction to
painkillers to opiates
and there are women who are going to get
pregnant
and are going to continue using opiates
continues in cocaine continues heroin
continue drinking alcohol and so on
during the pregnancy
and a lot of those women currently have
abortions
if you make abortion illegal because of
this
single stage of analysis the isolated
principle
that abortion itself is an act of
infanticide
let me ask you do you
want to raise those children
do you want to take responsibility for
raising the child
of a drug addict and let's say again not
too hypothetically
the drug addict abandons that child to
be a ward of the state to be left in an
orphanage
if not you then who
i have a daughter my daughter is six
years old
um we gave birth to the daughter of my
daughter in a hospital
and i've mentioned this before the ward
we were in
basically was the healthy babies award
but still you're only there
you know if you really have no problems
you leave you leave five minutes after
you give birth
so a lot of people had some mild health
problems i
because we were vegan i had to go and
buy food for my wife and carry it in
and i would come up the stairs
in the next ward next next section of
the hospital
and those are the families dealing with
really bad news
those are the families who had babies
where the heart was
outside the body at the time of birth
born with a hole in their heart
you know hole in their spine babies that
were going through
you know surgery and guess what
some of those families some of them knew
the baby had a serious malformation
before it was born
some of them had the option to abort
and if you say but abortion is
infanticide
i would say back that's true
but that's only a single stage of
analysis
and in the whole history of the world
every society every society i know of
has had formally or informally
some capacity for socially sanctioned
for acceptable
for legal infanticide which could indeed
include situations like a child
being born with its heart outside of its
chest
these kinds of very serious physical and
mental deformities
now i would not merely vote
to make abortion legal so i i do think
abortion
should be legal that's what i would vote
for i would vote
to make infanticide legal within certain
clearly stated limits
i think people can give birth to a child
and realize wow
this child is so physically impaired or
so mentally impaired
that you know and again very often
you're looking at complex surgeries
the moment after the child is born to
reconstruct its head reconstruct its
mouth reconstruct
its heart and so on and yes i do think
that responsible adults
parents it's another question who should
make the decision and so on
this needs to be legislated carefully
maybe for the first six months after a
child is born
there should be the option to euthanize
to to genuinely
commit infanticide to spare that child a
life
with those physical or mental
deformities
it's a decision i take very seriously
but taking those decisions seriously
is what democracy is all about as
tempting as it might be for me to just
drop the mic there
i think i should say a little bit more
about how morally incoherent
the left wing's position on this is what
i hear from the left
just today i was hearing it from the
young turks left of center
podcast and news show what i hear from
the left is the insistence
that the surgical operation itself is no
different
from a woman having her tonsils removed
single stage of analysis
and then they build on this premise the
idea
that any intervention by the state
whatsoever actually today the young
turks
they they said that it was rape they
said it was morally tantamount to rape
for the government to legislate anything
that would constrain what a woman
can or cannot do with their own body um
okay sorry you know there are laws that
govern having your tonsils removed
did you know that i can't just go in and
decide to have my tonsils removed
because i think it would look cool or
make me sing better there actually are
laws on that
um there are laws very specifically
about what women can and can't do to
their bodies
some breast implants breast augmentation
some breast implants are legal
and some are illegal in the united
states most of the surgeries to make
your bum
bigger to make your bum are illegal and
you may have heard about this some women
fly to other countries
where they don't have that legislation
in place so yes there are always going
to be laws
governing what surgeries people can and
can't have under what circumstances
even when the surgeries do not have any
of these
ethical cultural or religious questions
attached to them i don't know of any
religions that attach a special
significance to keeping your tonsils in
your throat
i think it's an open question the
morality of breast augmentation
topic for another video um but yeah that
debate isn't over
there are signs now that there are
really serious health consequences
negative health consequences from breast
augmentation
and probably that debate needs to be had
again probably needs to be voted on to
what extent
which surgeries are are permissible
which are not
here's the thing what the left wing is
refusing to do
is acknowledge even if we were just
talking
about removing your tonsils because of
tonsillitis
it would still be a morally positive
virtuous and pure position to say
that you aspire to have a society in
which
the fewest people possible get their
tonsils removed
to say hey you know what this this
operation
it's it's bad it's a bad thing in a
perfect world nobody would have to have
the tonsils removed
and we've got to look at all the
policies and procedures we can put in
place so there are
circumstances that avert this whether as
few as possible
and so that there are alternatives all
right that
really is the morally responsible
attitude to take towards
abortion and nobody can do it because
nobody's willing to get past this single
stage of admitting
yes abortion is a form of infanticide
and therefore you know you know there
are all kinds of alternatives there are
alternatives that include the child
being given up for adoption
there are alternatives that include
making contraception
as available as possible and the public
being as well informed as possible
etc etc uh there's a whole series of
policy choices you can make
that are going to minimize the number of
accidental and unwanted pregnancies
and yeah you know some of them though
some of them are coercive um
you know again when you think about it
when you think about women who
you know may be legally insane maybe
mentally impaired maybe drug addicts
may be a combination of all three you
can sometimes get
you know one woman like that is
repeatedly getting pregnant and
repeatedly having abortions
there are tough decisions and and legal
questions they say okay well at what
point
do we start really legislating people
have to take responsibility
for their own reproduction
and when they fail to at what point you
say look we have to really incentivize
people
to take this responsibility and take it
seriously because we don't want to be a
society
with x billion uh abortions happening
per year we want to be a society that a
judicious way
through public policy is minimizing the
number of abortions
okay now one of the reasons why i'm so
familiar with all this
is that it's closely comparable to
discourse we have within veganism okay
if you come to the conclusion that
everyone should adopt a vegan diet
it's a good conclusion but people come
to that conclusion
through incredibly flawed circuitous
and wrong courses of reasoning one of
the most common they say oh well
all life is sacred therefore they're
vegan
i don't believe that you know i'm a
nihilist i don't think any life is
sacred
human or animal but i'm vegan because
it's the right thing to do because i'm
interested in people taking
responsibility for the consequences of
their actions
and making the world a better place all
right legalizing
abortion which countries like canada
have not yet done
countries like the united kingdom
england have not yet done
society is carrying on a very
hypocritical way if you really believe
in democracy
you should press don't press for the
status quo
press for outright legalization right
now in the united states of america
you should be pressing for a referendum
on a constitutional amendment
to legalize abortion should do it
democratically you don't you don't want
supreme court justices making the
decision
stop and think why do you why do you
call a judge in court
you know my lord
[Laughter]
it's a court think about the meaning of
the word court this is a medieval
futile aristocratic arrangement
this is not democracy you don't want
judges deciding this for you you want to
decide this democratically
and as soon as you commit to a
democratic solution this problem then
you're going to commit to public
education
lobbying involving people even the
backward people of arkansas
the people are most committed to making
abortion illegal you're going to
involve them in this discourse to
legalize abortion
um you have to understand
that the commitment to legalizing
abortion
is not going to be the end of the
struggle no more than
the commitment to legalizing abortion
would end
adoption or would end drug addiction or
end the myriad other social problems of
indeed
rape incest that intersect
with this issue okay you're not going to
solve all of them with one law
and you're not going to solve all them
with one stroke with a pen and there's
going to be an
ongoing discourse about how we as a
society
can better educate and prepare people of
both genders
so that we have the fewest unwanted
pregnancies possible so that we have the
fewest abortions possible
people like to disrespect my crew but
the fact is that you know my name and i
don't know you